June the 19th, in Fort Worth, having the pleasure
of talking to Jim Creel. Jim, you grew up where?
Most of my early years were in Denton. My father was
city manager there, and then about the time I was
about 10 years old, we moved forward, and I've been
here ever since. I came back here after getting out
of school and have been practicing law basically
here ever since then. The first important
question. Why did you attend Texas A&M? Well, I
have always... had people say, well, you've never
had any choice. I don't know that that's true. I did
have a choice. But my dad had gone there. My mother
had worked there before the war. And I used to tell
people that, jokingly, that my parents supported
A&M before they supported me. And I also knew just
enough about it to want to go there. And I knew just
enough. I knew little enough about it that I didn't
think I knew everything that I would find. So I'd
always had the plan to go there. And I'm always
typically glad I did. You had visited there a
number of times before you enrolled. I'd been
there with my folks primarily. and thought I knew
something about it. When I got there my first year
in the Corps, I decided I didn't know anything
about it. And maybe I made a bad decision. But no, I
felt like I knew what I was getting into. Describe
for me the trip down there when you're going to
enroll. How did you get there? What did you take
with you? What gear? What baggage? I remember that
my parents took me there. They took me in the family
car, and we unloaded just the things that we'd been
told to bring, the basic essentials. I had gone
down there in the summer earlier. In fact, I went to
summer school in Junction before that. And then I
went to the orientation. freshman orientation at
A&M. And I went there by myself because I thought I
had it all figured out. But my parents took me down
there in September of 1965. And
it dropped
me off. And I think after that, reality hit me. This
was for real. Describe the campus when you
arrived. What was there?
The only thing I really remember about it at
Haskell was that we approached the core dorm area
and there were lots of people who I thought were
about like me already out in the area. They'd
already had some of the freshmen out marching and
drilling. I got moved in and I went over to the MSC
and got my Fish haircut, which I still remember my
mother was aghast at. But that's the main thing
that I remember that particular time. I remember
that it was hot. Mid-September is always hot, of
course. But that's my initial impression. I
wasn't thinking much about the campus. I was just
thinking about moving in. You're in the Corps.
What outfit? What dorm? I was in Company A2. And
when we first moved there, we were in dorm three.
Within about a week, we moved to dorm one. And I
lived there for all of my freshman year. I often say
now that all the students refer to the dorms by
name. And back then, I guess none of us were too
bright. We all went by dorm number. I guess we
couldn't have remembered all the names. Did your
outfit have a nickname? A Battery. Company A2, A
Battery Field Artillery. They didn't have the
unit designations as they did back in World War II,
but that outfit had retained its designation. It
was an Army outfit. Describe your room as a fish.
What was in there? Two walls, a door, a window.
Absolutely no... My goodness, when I looked at my
daughter's dorm room as a freshman last year, her
room looked like an electronics store compared to
what mine was like. It was very sparkly. What
furniture?
Beds, bunk beds. There was a metal chest of drawers
that each roommate got about two drawers or three
drawers of it. There was an old, each student had a
desk and a chair with plastic sort of, I'm not sure
what the material was, sort of like plastic arms in
the back. I think it was a wooden desk, although it
may have been metal and I just don't remember. And
that was about it. It was a sink built into the wall
with a mirror. I can still remember that, but
that's about all you got. Alright, and the toilet
and gang showers, gang toilets down the hall, two
on each floor. And
freshmen could have a footlocker where you kept
most of your stuff. You lived out of your
footlocker and you had a closet, a very small, very
small closet. And you could have a certain number
of civilian things in there, but you really didn't
have much need Describe the typical weekday
routine for a fish. What time did you get up, what
did you do, and what sequence?
I hadn't thought about this in years. Probably got
up about 6, although I may be wrong about that. You
wake up, have morning formation. March to
breakfast during morning formation. Sophomores
would inspect your uniform. March to breakfast,
eat breakfast, come back. You usually have a
little bit of time for last minute studying if you
needed to, but mainly what you do is clean your room
for inspection. You go to class, come back, have
lunch formation, march to lunch. And then in the
afternoon, if you had class, you'd go there. Most
of the people would try to take that time in the
afternoon to catch up on a little sleep if you
could. So usually there was more sleeping that
went on in the dorm in the afternoon than at night.
And then in the evening you'd have evening
formation, march to suppu, come back and have
study time, call the quarters, study time, until
about 10 o'clock, 10.30, and then it was lights out
for freshmen. Did you have any upperclassmen's
room for which you were responsible? the fish no uh
i was i was pretty lucky i had a i had a i lived right
next door to a senior who was from tarrant county he
was a outstanding guy fine man ended up getting his
phd in civil engineering at am and uh And as a result
of that, rather than suffering some of the horror
stories that many other people suffered down
there, I was spared a little bit of that because he
was a very high class guy. So I didn't have some of
the abuse that other people had. Can you describe
any of the, what an outsider might call, hazing
that went on?
I know for a fact that that sort of thing varied from
outfit to outfit. And we didn't have as much of it in
my outfit. There were some outfits that people
would get their rear ends beat with broom handles.
I had a little bit of that, but not much. Most of the
hazing was the type that, well, mental hazing.
There was usually some, if you didn't know a
campusology question, you might have to do
push-ups. There were times when they'd take all
the freshmen out and haze them with push-ups or
sit-ups or something, but that was pretty much the
extent of it, at least in my outfit. In your outfit,
were there any ever any retribution activities to
strike back at a sophomore or junior or senior who
took advantage of some fish?
I don't remember. I'm sure if I really thought back
about it, I probably would call some. I'm not sure
that I remember any specific ones. I do know that
there was always the situation at that time, sort
of a tradition, that the freshmen would steal
their company commander's footlocker. And that
was sort of an opportunity for the upperclassmen
to, in an organized manner, haze the freshmen. I
seem to recall that in our outfit, the idea was that
you were supposed to somehow get your CO's
footlocker into the stadium for the Thanksgiving
Day game, take it on the field, and leave it. And the
story that I seem to remember in my outfit was that
We did have a freshman who managed with one or two
others to get our CO's footlocker into the
stadium. And of all things, it turned out that they
happened to be seated near or somewhere around our
CO's mother who wondered why her son's footlocker
was with these other people. But that was a chance
for about a week or so of organized hazing. And
there was also the Another example of sort of
organized hazing was before the SMU game, there
was always a requirement that freshmen wear spurs
because we were playing the SMU Mustang. Made out
of? Made out of beer bottle caps. And that required
a lot of effort. I had a car. It wasn't rare, but it
was not common for people to have cars. But... I
went with two or three of my fish buddies, and we
went to one of the beer distributors in Bryan and
asked if they had some old bottle caps, and they had
some. So we were able to maybe do a little better job
than some of the other guys. We got just all the
bottle caps we wanted and took them back, and then
you had to straighten them out. and drill a hole in
them and just a lot of work, just a lot of work to walk
around the campus wearing those things. They
should put them on coat hangers? Put them on, yeah,
you'd strap them on, you'd affix them to coat
hangers around the back of your shoes and then
somehow hook them under. I can't remember exactly
how you did it. You'd make a little apparatus and
then tie them around so that they were attached to
your shoes. They'd make this god awful noise when
you'd walk around campus. Because I remember as an
instructor trying to say to the students, OK, I
know what week this is. Try to keep your feet still
during class. Yeah, yeah. Let's see. Was your
freshman year roommate a special official lady?
Was that a special relationship for you, a special
friend? No, actually, we didn't know each other.
We were just thrown together, and we got along
well. No, did he become a special friend? No, not
really, not really. I saw him about 10 years ago,
but he only stayed in the Corps for another year or
so, and then left. And so we didn't know. Were there
some special friends that you made in your outfit?
Yes, there were some. As time progressed, I made,
probably my best friends were not necessarily
guys that were in my outfit. I still see some of them
at class reunions and things, but I guess my best
friends were people that I, friends that I made my
junior and senior year down there. Let's see,
dining hall. Describe some of the dining hall
routine for a corps member in Duncan. Oh dear,
you're taking me back a long way.
Freshmen had to give meal service, had to sit next
to an upperclassman, had to give meal service. You
were seated family style, which means there were
about, as I recall, probably eight people at a
table. Waiters would bring the food in bowls. And
it was the freshmen's duty to make sure that
everybody had enough to eat, specifically the
upperclassmen. And they were responsible for
organizing the food dishes to quarter more. If you
wanted something else to eat, you could always
send it back. They'd have to work with the waiters.
And sometimes if they had an upperclassman
waiter, they'd get hazed by that upperclassman
waiter just as much as they would the guys at their
tables. And freshmen really didn't get a chance to
do much eating until the upperclassmen had left.
And then they had the rule that freshmen could walk
around and just grab whatever they wanted to off
any of the tables. And so usually about 20 minutes
after the meal had started, you'd look around and
you'd find just isolated freshmen here and there.
And that's the way most of us kept from losing any
more weight than we did, was by taking advantage of
that and eating whatever we could. Well, share
with me, if you can, some of the nicknames for
various food items. Oh, golly. Boy, I hadn't
thought about this. Oh, dear. Gravy, beans, meat,
milk, bread.
Let's see. Dessert was kush. That's an easy one.
Dessert was kush. I remember that. Let's see. Meat
was bull neck. Milk was cow. Shoot the cow.
Good gracious. Ketchup? Blood. That's one of
those things that's back there in my memory
somewhere, but some guys probably brought their
kids up teaching them those things, and I never
did, so I can't. Oh, I just thought of one that I'd
not ask anybody else. I've heard of stories where
that some freshman forgot when he got home and used
some A&M lingo at the table. Did that happen to you?
No. Some of the food terminology was not exactly
etiquette that your mother would teach you. Yeah,
that's what I've heard. And that the mother or
father would say, what? Yeah. And it wasn't... I
knew of stories like that. Do you remember,
whether it involved you or not, do you remember any
dining hall pranks, jokes? Sure. Share some. Lots
of times they would be seniors or juniors who would
instruct other freshmen to crawl along the floor
and Everyone had to sit with their napkins tucked
into their lap, and they'd give somebody a
cigarette lighter and have them crawl along the
floor and slide it up under a table and light
somebody's napkin. And of course, if you ever felt
something like that, you could tell it was a
freshman from some other outfit, so you wouldn't
squeal on a fish buddy and tell the upperclassmen.
Usually at mealtime you were asked campusology
questions by the sophomore or some other
upperclassmen at your table. And it always, if you
had upperclassmen who were sports fans, they were
always asking you questions about who was in the
starting lineup for the Aggies or who was the high
point man for the Aggies the night before or that
sort of thing. So you always had to be prepared for
things like that.
Those were Once you kind of got in a routine and
learned the people that were sitting at your
table, it could be kind of fun if you were with good
people. Please share any of the good bull jokes,
pranks that you knew about while you were an
undergraduate.
Like one year I had two or three students in my
history 105 and they decided they would try to
kidnap every Southwest Conference mascot. Yeah,
that was about the group of 1964. Something like
that, yeah. I've got a friend who was in that class
and he's told me about that. Oh dear. Did y'all, did
you hear of any legendary pranks on a sophomore or a
senior? Well, there was...
I almost feel like I need to go off the record, but
there was a classmate of mine, a good friend of
mine, who lived in my dorm for about three years,
who would go out before football weekends
with his bow and arrow and would poach deer. He'd
freeze them in the headlights And the coach would
shoot him with a bow and arrow and dress, to clean
him and dress him in the shower, drag him back to
campus, clean him, dress him in the shower, cook
him for outfit parties. Oh my. Now, was this in the
Brazos County area where he killed the deer? Yeah.
With a bow and arrow. Yeah, and he was a pretty
legendary guy like that. Oh, I never heard that
one. When we're not taping, I'll tell you more
about it sometime. I can still remember that when I
was in school, probably junior and senior year,
there was a tendency toward making, in the dorm
area, catapults using funnels with surgical
tubing fixed through the tops of them. And then
you'd make water balloons. stick them in the
funnel and pull them back, and you'd fire water
balloons across the quad at each other. And what
was the container of the water? Just a funnel. No.
Oh, just a funnel. A funnel. And you'd put a water
balloon, and you'd fill it. put water in the
balloon. Was that a true balloon? Oh yeah. Just
fill the little balloon and then you stick them in a
funnel, just a plain old plastic funnel like you
can find anywhere. You have a couple people hold on
to each end of the surgical tubing, pull the funnel
back and let it fly. There were a lot of, back in the
spring, there were a lot of water fights. Of course
there was always the band the Corps versus the
band. There was always all kinds of things going on
between them. Let's see. Drownouts? Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Oh, Babbo bombs? Yeah. Describe, as far as
you know, describe the technology for Babbo
bombing. Well, let me think. Basically, you get a,
not a can, what do you call it, a container of Babbo
take the top off, insert a cherry bomb in it, and
with a fuse, if I remember right, put the can back
on, light the fuse. All right, now was there still
an airspace under doors at that point? There was a
little bit, yeah. Okay, and then you'd roll it
under there? You couldn't quite get it all the way
under
there. I remember there, we used to take, there was
enough room between... between the door and the
door jam, that you could take a baseball bat, split
right down the middle, and jam the baseball bat
between those, and somebody inside the room
couldn't get out. That was used one time that I can
recall. I guess the statute of limitations
inspired on a lot of these things. One that I heard
about was a roll of tea paper soaked in water. And I
said, are you sure it was water? Yes, it was water.
Then a babble bomb stuffed with paper and roll that
under and blow it. Oh, you could do that in the
toilets. The toilets had an air space. Oh, no. This
was in the 40s. Oh, in the 40s. There was then a lot of
air space. And then hot weather, window up, first
floor room, sandbag is door. put the water hose in
the window, turned on softly, and let the water get
maybe a foot deep in the room. But the person said,
we didn't realize when that door was open where
that water was going to go down the hallway and who
was going to have to clean it up. Yeah, yeah. I
didn't ever know about any of those, but yeah. What
about some good bull at football games or yell
practices or anything? Do you remember anything?
Or in class. I spent about 30 years just kind of
blocking some of those things out.
I'm kind of blanked on that. Also, one other thing
that comes back to me is I remember Some of the guys
in my outfit, they were sophomores, I guess,
learned how to get around in the steam tunnels.
Where did the steam tunnels go? Apparently all
under the whole campus. If I remember right, there
was a place that you could get in. I never went down
there, but a couple of these guys did. You could go
over by the biology building. It was a place that
you could get down in there. And the steam tunnels
went all underneath the dorm areas. And the idea
was that you could, the idea was that ideally you
could go down there, particularly under the band
dorm, and find some way to get in there and you could
work some mischief on the band of some type, I
think. But I don't remember exactly, I don't think
there was anything catastrophic that happened.
But that's what happened to me. I had a lot of guys
with a lot of time on their hands. How did your life
change when you became a sophomore? What was
different about being a sophomore? Well, the most
immediate thing I remember is that my sophomore
year, we moved. Our outfit was in the Sabisa area.
They still had some core units over there. And the
most immediate thing was that we had an
air-conditioned dorm. So this would be the fall of
60? 66. That area was air conditioned. My freshman
year, the Duncan area was not air conditioned. So
that made everything more tolerable.
We parked over there. I had a parking place that
wasn't as far away as the freshman. We used to call
the freshman and sophomore lots the Hempstead and
Avisota lot because they were down there near
where the old bonfire field used to be. which in
retrospect wasn't all that far, but it seemed
long. But my sophomore year, it was a totally
different orientation, on a different side of the
campus. And you were over by Northgate, so you
could always go over there and buy things if you
needed to. There was shopping you could go to. And
it was different for me because I changed my major
to accounting. I nearly flunked out of starting
out as an engineering major. And so I changed my
major to accounting and did much better. So I
always viewed my sophomore year as really a good
year. Let's try to zero in now on some of the
academic. When you came, you were planning to
major in? Engineering. Engineering. And what
courses helped you decide you didn't want to do
engineering? Very simple. I didn't think I would
be good at engineering, but my father had been one.
I thought, well, I'll try it and see. In the spring
semester of my freshman year, I was taking 18
hours, which a lot of people did back then, and I
made, on a three-point average, a three-point
range, I made a 1.0, which doesn't sound too bad,
but I still remember I made an A in PE, an A in
military science, and an A in history. One of the
six, I think it was. And then there may have been
something else that I got some great points in. I
think I made a C, perhaps, in engineering drawing.
But then I had 12 other hours.
Chemistry, I made a D. Physics and calculus, I made
an F. So I decided right then that I didn't have an
engineer's approach to things. So you switched to
accounting? Switched to accounting. All right.
And did that remain your major? Yes. I got my degree
in accounting. Who were the key advisors,
teachers, whether in accounting or not, that you
now look back upon as being important? Sure. In the
business school, Business school then was not
nearly what it is now. It is an excellent school
now. Then it was adequate, and they were working to
make it better. There was Carlton Stowie, who is
still on the accounting faculty, was a young
accounting instructor, and I had him for one of the
accounting classes. He was a good teacher. There
was another young accounting professor, Alan
Porter, who was a very good... professor and I
remember learning quite a bit from him. I think
without question the best professor I had in
business school was a man named Bill Luker and I
still remember that business students then had to
take two semesters of statistics and the first
semester I took in the spring of my sophomore year
And I was a sophomore, and most of the other people
in there were juniors and some seniors, I think.
And statistics was something that came easy for
me. I did very well in class. But Dr. Luker was so
interested in students' learning that an amazing
thing happened. When the fall semester of the next
year came around and people were signing up for the
for the second semester of statistics, he told us
in advance what class he'd be teaching. And
remarkably, virtually everyone who was in that
other class signed up for his fall class. And he
walked in, and here was almost the same seating
chart. Everyone signed because he was a
remarkably gifted teacher. There were several
other teachers, particularly in the liberal arts
area, that I enjoyed. I took several economics
classes, excellent teachers. Who? Graham.
Senator Graham had started teaching then in
history. Dr. Calvin, I had him for 106, I believe.
He's still there. Yeah, very good teacher, very
good teacher. took some English classes that I
enjoyed. And so while A&M is essentially a
technology-oriented agriculture and
engineering school, it was in the liberal arts
area that I found several teachers who were very
interesting that really gave me appreciation for
those things. If you needed advice and
counseling, to whom did you turn?
I'm trying to think. Depending upon the time,
well, I can tell you that the person that gave me a
lot of advice
when I was trying to decide about going to law
school was Wayne Stark. I never was active in the
MSC programs that Wayne had, but I knew him. I think
somehow my parents had been down there one time and
met him. He used to always hang out in the coffee
shop at the MSC. I got to know him. He was always
trying to get people to go to Harvard Law School. I
don't think I was high octane enough for that, but
he was very encouraging about those kinds of
things. He was a particularly good man. Did you
ever get the green couch treatment from him? No. Do
you know what I'm talking about? I've heard that.
But no, I didn't. All of my involvement with Mr.
Stark was just in different discussions. I went on
some of his MSC student leader trips. Oh, did you?
Yeah. Describe. The one that I can particularly
remember was when we were seniors when we went to
Houston.
He
gave Aggies from College Station the opportunity
to do things that probably most of us hadn't done
before.